Serverless changelog 02/10/2026 (#5114)
elastic/docs-content: release-notes/elastic-cloud-serverless/index.md

# {{serverless-full}} changelog [elastic-cloud-serverless-changelog]
Review the changes, fixes, and more to {{serverless-full}}.

## February 9, 2026 [serverless-changelog-02092026]

### Features and enhancements [serverless-changelog-02092026-features-enhancements]

> * Allows you to search IP fields in controls using CIDR notation [#250875]({{kib-pull}}250875)

Reviewer: maybe

```suggestion
* Allows you to search IP fields in controls using CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) notation [#250875]({{kib-pull}}250875)
```

* Makes `Contains` the default search technique for the options list [#250992]({{kib-pull}}250992)
* Allows you to drag panels while they're in focus for editing [#251327]({{kib-pull}}251327)
* Allows installation of integration-managed SLO templates by {{fleet}} [#250369]({{kib-pull}}250369)
* Improves the **By Value** embeddable editor flow [#250438]({{kib-pull}}250438)
* Improves timezone support [#247917]({{kib-pull}}247917)
* Adds query stats [#251029]({{kib-pull}}251029)
* Uses restorable state in doc viewer's **Table** tab [#249682]({{kib-pull}}249682)
* Adds health scans for SLOs [#248004]({{kib-pull}}248004)

> * Supports KQL filtering in all types of aggregations in Custom Threshold rules [#248845]({{kib-pull}}248845)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds support for KQL filtering in all types of aggregations in custom threshold rules [#248845]({{kib-pull}}248845)
```

* Introduces AI-assisted detection rule creation [#247674]({{kib-pull}}247674)
* Adds support for v2 Splunk dashboards to Automatic Migration [#251199]({{kib-pull}}251199)
* Updates package dependencies: adds `fast-xml-parser@^5.3.4` [#251644]({{kib-pull}}251644)
* Adds a user feedback plugin [#225074]({{kib-pull}}225074)
* Adds `maxSize` for entries in security endpoints related API schemas [#246359]({{kib-pull}}246359)
* Opens matching pattern docs in a new Discover tab [#245695]({{kib-pull}}245695)
* Adds missing {{esql}} commands and functions documentation for inference tasks [#249089]({{kib-pull}}249089)
* Refreshes the {{ml}} **Overview** page [#247573]({{kib-pull}}247573)
* adds `xpack.productDocBase.artifactRepositoryProxyUrl` setting to `kibana.yml` [#250771]({{kib-pull}}250771)

> * Adds **Copy to clipboard** button for inference endpoint names in the Inference Endpoints management page [#251494]({{kib-pull}}251494)

Reviewer: This is an icon button, there’s no UI label.
```suggestion
* Adds a copy-to-clipboard button next to inference endpoint names in the Inference endpoints page [#251494]({{kib-pull}}251494)
```

* Adds a default model suggestion to AI Connector configuration menus [#250506]({{kib-pull}}250506)

> * Adds descriptions to the semantic_text field inference endpoint selection interface [#249265]({{kib-pull}}249265)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds descriptions to the inference endpoint selection interface for the `semantic_text` field [#249265]({{kib-pull}}249265)
```

* Adds multi-value field {{esql}} support for the `CHUNK` function [#141240]({{es-pull}}141240)
* Adds APM telemetry for the {{esql}} `SET` statement [#141719]({{es-pull}}141719)
* Adds logic to fold project tags metadata on data nodes [#141935]({{es-pull}}141935)
* Adds warning for Sort Under Lookup Join [#141482]({{es-pull}}141482)
* Adds failure store support for CCS [#139760]({{es-pull}}139760)
* Makes the `TDigest` field a time series metric. [#141386]({{es-pull}}141386)
* Optimizes search shard iterator sort [#140747]({{es-pull}}140747)
* Optimizes `TopNOperator` when the input is already sorted [#141094]({{es-pull}}141094)

### Fixes [serverless-changelog-02092026-fixes]

* Prevents QRadar building-block rules from unnecessary migration via Automatic Migration [#250558]({{kib-pull}}250558)
* Fixes KQL character escaping for queries generated from the Top values column in Lens [#250925]({{kib-pull}}250925)
* Fixes `COMPLETION` quick help syntax [#251939]({{kib-pull}}251939)
* Fixes SLO filter containing spaces and wildcards [#251033]({{kib-pull}}251033)
* Fixes shared exception list showing ID instead of name [#249778]({{kib-pull}}249778)

> * Fixes backslash being removed when typed into the exception field [#250117]({{kib-pull}}250117)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue where the backslash was removed when typed into the exception field [#250117]({{kib-pull}}250117)
```

* Fixes `spaceId` in Agent Builder security tools [#251513]({{kib-pull}}251513)

> * Fixes exception list `os_types` field returning empty array [#250279]({{kib-pull}}250279)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes the exception list `os_types` field returning empty array [#250279]({{kib-pull}}250279)
```

> * Fixes a11y issue with missing label in the flyout component [#251656]({{kib-pull}}251656)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes an accessibility issue caused by a missing label in a flyout component [#251656]({{kib-pull}}251656)
```

* Add a badge to the Agent Builder UI when your license doesn't support it [#251484]({{kib-pull}}251484)
* Reduces background polling on the Index Details page to avoid unnecessary API requests [#251446]({{kib-pull}}251446)
* Fixes pagination dimensions list in Discover flyouts [#251250]({{kib-pull}}251250)
* Improves handling of 204 responses to Cases webhooks [#251090]({{kib-pull}}251090)
* Fixes {{esql}} test tool failing when the numerical value is zero [#251901]({{kib-pull}}251901)
* Fixes document flyout loading loop with relative time ranges [#251647]({{kib-pull}}251647)
* Fixes Agent Builder index search support for special text fields `match_only_text` and `pattern_text` [#252082]({{kib-pull}}252082).
* Improves errors on some {{esql}} queries missing timestamps [#141503]({{es-pull}}141503)
* Fixes {{esql}} bug when grouping on aliases [#141568]({{es-pull}}141568)
* Extends the `read` index privilege to consistently cover all actions required to run cross-cluster search queries [#141376]({{es-pull}}141376)

* Adds validation to inference update operation [#140003]({{es-pull}}140003)

> * Fix `TO_IP` `leading_zeros=octal` {{esql}} parsing [#141776]({{es-pull}}141776)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes the parsing of `TO_IP(input, {"leading_zeros":"octal"})` in {{esql}} [#141776]({{es-pull}}141776)
```

* Prevents a possible NPE by instead throwing an EIAE with more info [#141711]({{es-pull}}141711)
* Improves handling of duplicate {{esql}} doc IDs [#142055]({{es-pull}}142055)
* Fixes `IP_PREFIX` {{esql}} function leaking data in scratch [#141940]({{es-pull}}141940)

> * Reuses Block Reader only when few fields [#141672]({{es-pull}}141672)

Reviewer: Based on the PR description:
```suggestion
* Prevents {{esql}} from reusing `BlockLoad.ColumnAtATimeReader` when loading many fields at once [#141672]({{es-pull}}141672)Stops 
```

* Fixes build failure due to merge collision [#141722]({{es-pull}}141722)
* Fixes downsampling configuration validation [#141873]({{es-pull}}141873)
* Fixes handling of empty collapse construct [#141973]({{es-pull}}141973)

> * Allows shadowing of timeseries parameters in non timeseries mappings [#141549]({{es-pull}}141549)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Allows shadowing of time-series parameters in non-time-series mappings [#141549]({{es-pull}}141549)
```
